hey guys it always seems like a cheap
shot to me to say to people this guy's
problem is he doesn't read books this
guy's problem is he doesn't study
history or a famous phrase in the vegan
movement this person isn't learning the
lessons of history it's so it's so trite
it's so shallow but you know this is the
21st century and often enough the
problem I really do need to address is
that somebody you know hasn't been
reading books now you know why is that
increasingly a problem partly it's just
cuz bucks have a lot of competition
these days I mean there are a lot of
other ways you can get information you
can stay current
you can stay contemporary and you can
stay feeling cosmopolitan and plugged
into what's going on without reading
books but there are disadvantages to
this kind of elective illiteracy and I
see them across the political spectrum
and I see them especially in this kind
of I don't know X left-winger movement I
mean look veganism is a political
movement and there is a counter movement
of X vegans islam has to deal with the
counter movement of X Muslims I guess
it's not so surprising that broadly
speaking the left has to deal with X
leftists but I see a narrative being
spun a propaganda claim being purported
by many people on YouTube including
sargon of akkad that somehow the
left-wing has gotten worse and worse and
worse during his lifetime what you think
is approximately the same as my lifetime
and it's not true and for anyone out
there who still reads books it should be
resoundingly obvious how hollow specious
and misleading this this claim is Sargon
can you remember the days when the
left-wing was defined by making excuses
for the atrocities carried out by the
Soviet Union this is some slang that
hasn't been used much since the early
1990s but one of the insults against
left wingers was to refer to them as
tanki's that's ta NK
keys at tanki was an insult meaning you
are somebody who still makes excuses for
the Soviet Union when they roll tanks on
peaceful protesters that's that's
shortened down to a one word and so this
one was a tanky so even when the Soviets
were brutally repressive dissent for
example in the Czech Republic but
anywhere in Europe in Asia in
Afghanistan of course within within the
Soviet Union within Russia there was a
time when the left-wing discourse was
dominated by surreal apologetics for
communism for economic theories that
made no sense got no results or in some
cases were directly linked to causing
mass starvation I've lived through a
series of incredibly dark and dismal
periods in the left-wing there was this
period of sort of I'd say post communist
recuperation when the Communists
couldn't sorry sorry I'm saying
communist allies who were crypto
communists when people on the Left
couldn't naked Lee use Marxist sources
anymore they couldn't directly use
socialist reasoning and they instead
turned to Hegel and Hegelian ISM and you
had leftist Hegelian as it was obscene
it was grotesque you can't believe how
awful that period was on the Left I'm
sorry if you didn't live through it I
really mean that honestly there is no
way right now you can go on Google or go
on YouTube and see how awful that was
because that period of the left-wing was
not preserved on YouTube it was
unbelievably mind-blowing awful can any
of you guys remember the attempt of the
left-wing to rehabilitate Immanuel Kant
the philosophy of kantianism like a
political content ism again because they
had this period of not being able to
directly work with or from marxist and
social sources and you know then after
that finally i don't know when it
started I guess maybe sometime after the
rise and fall of the Occupy Wall Street
movement I think we had a return to
naked honest Marxism Marxism calling
itself Marxism and other people being
naked Lee and honest
anti-marxist being you know left-wing
but openly pro-capitalist probe free
markets and so on you you want to tell
me that the current era went there is no
doubt the single greatest proponent of
the mainstream left is Bernie Sanders
globally no doubt yes there's also
Jeremy Corbyn in England there are
specific leaders everywhere of course
Italy Sweden Taiwan Hong Kong of course
but we're done with the English language
world the english-speaking world and you
know even if we're talking in a global
abstraction of all languages the
outstanding figure of the present era is
Bernie Sanders and other left wingers
can situate themselves relative to the
norm established by by Bernie Sanders
Bernie Sanders he doesn't have all the
answers Bernie Sanders doesn't even have
all the right questions but he's a
tremendously positive figure for the
left
in contrast to Barack Obama in contrast
to the incredibly dark and dismal period
that followed after the collapse of
Soviet Communism 1989 and in contrast to
the unbelievably hypocritical and
immoral period of making excuses for
barbarism barbaric mass murder mass
starvation lies and communist propaganda
that went from world war ii at least up
to 1989 i mean certainly some people
were already making those pro-communist
statements going back to 1917 and so on
but there was certainly a distinctive
era from world war ii up till 1989 and
you know those old habits die hard
partly because those habits were paid
for by donors who was accustomed to
giving money to keep that propaganda
cycle going in the western world
so serve out of a cad i think you've got
a real short memory i think you got a
real thin skin and i think you're
focused on some of the shallowest
epiphenomena of the left-wing on social
media you know this stuff you're
complaining about it adds up to nothing
and I think a sincere and somewhat deep
engagement with the contrast we're
looking at now between the era of Barack
Obama they of the era of Tony Blair what
a dark day for anyone left-of-centre the
Tony Blair era was when the leap it's
indescribable have you wet so I can't I
don't know if you people read books have
you read the stakeholder society by Tony
Blair I have the stakeholder society by
Tony Blair was the equivalent of mine
Kampf for left-wingers who wanted to
sell out the left-wing
to corporate interests it really is I
mean it's everything that today jimmy
dore complains about within the Democrat
Party in the United States I was this is
a British source it's really a lightning
rod you look back on that and see where
that era began and why it eventually had
to end and yes
the era we have now whether it's
articulate years of Jeremy Corbyn bike
by no means is right about everything by
no means has all the answers been no
means yes question Jeremy Corbyn and and
and Bernie Sanders this is an
unbelievably optimistic time to be
engaged with the left and don't let
anyone tell you on the basis of snidey
two comments on Twitter and YouTube
videos that that's not the case I want
to say guys you can click below this
video and see my playlists I have one
video it's simply titled why I am NOT
left-wing but I feel like putting up a
video saying look this is why I've still
got to hang out around the entrance to
the left-wing club because there's
nowhere else for me to hang right now
there is no alternative and for people
who don't have the money or the clout to
start their own political party if you
care about health care prison reform due
process of the law elections corruption
if you're an anti-corruption if you care
about ecology the environment
deforestation water pollution air
pollution if you care about animal
rights
if you care about indigenous peoples
it's deeply troubling to me that in so
many countries the left has a monopoly
on these issues I wish they had
competition from the center from the
right from some from Buddhist
organizations whatever from some new
political paradigm I'd love it if there
was a lively competition to represent
these issues outside of the left but for
most of us we have to face up the fact
that there isn't so either you're gonna
take a stand to fight for the future of
the Democrat Party within the United
States the Liberal Party or the Labour
Party depending on where you live you
know either you're gonna fight to
reshape the future of the left wing or
it seems to me you're just gonna give up
unless you're in that tiny minority of
people who can create their own rules
play their own game and start their own
party
guess what Bernie Sanders is one of
those people but even he is still
choosing to play the game within the
Democrat Party because even he doesn't
think he can start his own thing